Add OP_TEMPLATEHASH and TH+CSFS+IK bundle BIP (#1974)
bitcoin/bips: bip-templatehash.md

    - *sha_outputs* (32): the SHA256 of the serialization of all outputs in `CTxOut` format, as per BIP341.
- Data about this input:
    - *annex_present* (1): as defined in BIP341 (0 if no annex is present, or 1 otherwise).
    - *input_index* (4): index of this input in the transaction input vector. Index of the first input is 0.
    - If an annex is present:
        - *sha_annex* (32): the SHA256 of the annex, as per BIP341.

## Rationale

The template hash follows BIP341's signature message format, with minimal necessary deviations. This reuses a
tried-and-proven approach to hashed messages, and importantly makes it possible to reuse the pre-computed subfields
introduced by BIP341 to prevent quadratic hashing. Besides the hash tags, this results in at most 109 bytes being hashed
upon execution of the operation[^hashed-msg-max-size]. This is strictly less hashing than is necessary for other
existing operations.

The specific fields from the BIP341 signature message that are ommitted when computing the template hash are the
following:
- *hash_type*: this is the sighash type identifier. Only a single hash type is supported by `OP_TEMPLATEHASH`, so there

>   is no need to commit to such an identifier.

Reviewer: I don’t see any references to sighash types in the specification section, let alone that OP_TEMPLATEHASH only supports a single hash type. What is the sighash type that you need to use with OP_TEMPLATEHASH, and shouldn’t that be mentioned in the spec?

> - *hash_type*: this is the sighash type identifier. Only a single hash type is supported by `OP_TEMPLATEHASH`, so there
>   is no need to commit to such an identifier.

Reviewer: Ah, I see. The phrase “only a single hash type is supported by `OP_TEMPLATEHASH`” confused me in the context of `hash_type` being omitted, and I think the context could be made clearer. Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
- *hash_type*: refers to the sighash type identifier in the context of BIP341 signatures. The input for `OP_TEMPLATEHASH` is fixed, so there
  is no need for a mechanism to modify the hash composition.
```

- *spend_type*: this value is defined by BIP341 as *2\*ext_flag + annex_present*. Since no extension is appended to the
  signature message, *ext_flag* is set to 0. Therefore we commit directly to *annex_present*.
- *sha_prevouts* / *sha_scriptpubkeys*: committing to these fields as is would introduce a hash cycle when the hash is
  committed in the output itself. Committing to all other prevouts or scriptpubkeys would introduce hashing a quantity
  of data quadratic in the number of inputs. It would also prevent spending two coins encumbered by a template hash
  check in the same transaction. Finally, the flexibility of not committing to the specific coins spent is also

>   desirable to recover from mistakes[^no-commit-other-coins].

Author: there's an included footnote for a (weak) example with respect to value, though it doesn't apply to prevouts per se. If the other coin gets swept, you can "contribute" a new utxo to make it whole and rescue the locked funds. 

It's not the primary motivation for the design decision compared to the others.

>   desirable to recover from mistakes[^no-commit-other-coins].

Reviewer: On second reading, I do see what you mean. It seems to me that this could be discussed more explicitly than such a subtle footnote.

The design of `OP_TEMPLATEHASH` was inspired by the design of [BIP119][ctv-bip] `OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY` but differs in
several important ways.

First of all, `OP_TEMPLATEHASH` is only defined for Tapscript, as modifying legacy Script comes with an unnecessarily
increased risk surface. In addition, sticking to Tapscript allows leveraging more powerful upgrade hooks (`OP_SUCCESS`s
instead of `OP_NOP`s) which make it possible to push the template hash on the stack instead of being constrained to
strict assertions with no stack modification. Pushing the template hash on the stack substantially improves the
efficiency of using `OP_TEMPLATEHASH` as a building block for rebindable signatures.

Unlike `OP_TEMPLATEHASH`, `OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY` also commits to the scriptSig of all inputs of the spending
transaction. `OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY` gives txid stability when the committed spending transaction has a single input,
and when the scriptSig of this single input has been committed by the hash.
Taproot scriptSigs must be empty and therefore under the single input case `OP_TEMPLATEHASH` has no requirement

> to commit to scriptSigs to achieve txid stability.

Reviewer 2: everytime I read through this always my biggest question is "why not commit to all script sigs being empty" or "what are the potential downsides to having multi input malleability"

would be nice to have an explanation in this to explain why this trade off is okay
